Ff152 Element.getAnimations() - new options.pseudoElement param (#44219)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/element/getanimations/index.md

{{APIRef("Web Animations")}}

> The `getAnimations()` method of the {{domxref("Element")}} interface returns an array of all {{domxref("Animation")}} objects affecting this element or which are scheduled to do so in future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getAnimations()` method of the {{domxref("Element")}} interface returns an array of all {{domxref("Animation")}} objects affecting this element, or that are scheduled to do so in the future.
```

> It can optionally return {{domxref("Animation")}} objects for descendant elements and their [pseudo-elements](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/Pseudo-elements), or just for a specified pseudo-element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can optionally return {{domxref("Animation")}} objects either for descendant elements and their [pseudo-elements](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/Pseudo-elements) or just for the specified pseudo-element.
```

- `options` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : An options object containing the following property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : An options object containing the following properties:
```

    - `subtree`

>       - : A boolean value which, if `true`, causes animations that target descendants of _Element_ to be returned as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - : A boolean value, which if `true`, causes animations that target descendants of _Element_ to be returned as well.
```

        This includes animations that target any CSS [pseudo-elements](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/Pseudo-elements) attached to _Element_ or one of its descendants.
        Defaults to `false`.
    - `pseudoElement`
      - : A string specifying a pseudo selector, such as [`::after`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/::after).

>         If set, this indicates that the target of the operation is the [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/Pseudo-elements) identified by this pseudo selector.

Reviewer: not sure why we need to say pseudo selector..could we combine these two sentences and more directly refer to "pseudo-element"?

Author: You're probably right. My understanding of the spec is that  `::after` is a pseudo-selector and the whole `selector::after` is the pseudo element. That makes sense because without the associated element you have a keyword - it has no meaning without being attached via a selector to some element.

But that isn't how MDN refers to it. In [`pseudo-elements`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/Pseudo-elements) it is clear that `::after` is what we call the pseudo-element. 
This complicates things a bit because the pseudo element is "really" a whole bunch of elements that might get selected by that pseudo selector.

But, I'm not here to invent terminology, so thanks!

```suggestion
      - : A string that specifies a [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/Pseudo-elements) to be the target element, such as [`::after`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Selectors/::after).
```

    Note that specifying both `pseudoElement` and `subtree` is equivalent to specifying just `pseudoElement`.

### Return value

> An {{jsxref("Array")}} of {{domxref("Animation")}} objects, each representing an animation currently targeting the {{domxref("Element")}} on which this method is called, or one of its descendant elements if `{ subtree: true }` is specified.

Reviewer: - could be split up to improve readability
- should "one of its descendant elements" be all matching "descendant elements"?
- shouldnt this also include the return value description for when `pseudoElement` is specified?

```suggestion
An {{jsxref("Array")}} of {{domxref("Animation")}} objects, each representing an animation currently targeting the {{domxref("Element")}} .
If `{ subtree: true }` is specified, this includes animation objects targeting descendant elements.
```

Author: ```suggestion
An {{jsxref("Array")}} of {{domxref("Animation")}} objects, each representing an animation currently targeting the {{domxref("Element")}}.

If the `{ subtree: true }` parameter is specified, the returned value also includes animation objects targeting descendant elements, including pseudo-elements.
If `options.pseudoElement` is specified, the return value includes just the animation objects that match the selected pseudo-element.
```

### Exceptions

- `SyntaxError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}

>   - : An invalid pseudo element was passed in the [`options.pseudoElement`](#pseudoelement) parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : An invalid pseudo-element was passed in the [`options.pseudoElement`](#pseudoelement) parameter.
```

## Examples

### Wait for all animations on an element and its descendants

The following code snippet will wait for all animations on `elem` and its descendants to finish before removing the element from the document.

```js
Promise.all(
  elem.getAnimations({ subtree: true }).map((animation) => animation.finished),
).then(() => elem.remove());
```

### Get animations for a pseudo-element target

This example displays a progress bar using a pseudo-elements.

> It uses `getAnimations()` to return the animations for the pseudo element, and uses these to start the animation, and to remove the bar once the animation is complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example displays a progress bar using a pseudo-element.
It uses `getAnimations()` to return the animations for the pseudo-element, starts them, and then removes the progress bar once the animation is complete.
```

> Note that the code uses a fallback approach to get the animations, in case the `pseudoElement` option is not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the code uses a fallback approach to get the animations in case the `pseudoElement` option is not supported.
```

There is also hidden code to display a "Restart" button.

#### HTML

> 

Reviewer: we could add here that we define a progress bar element

Author: We could. I think it is perhaps too obvious.

```html
<div class="progress-bar" id="bar"></div>
```

#### CSS

The CSS draws and animates a progress bar element that progresses across the width of its container in three seconds.

> The animation is initially paused, so that we can start it in JavaScript.

Reviewer: or to avoid repeating "a progress bar element that progresses":
```suggestion
The CSS styles the progress bar element to animate across the width of its container in 3 seconds.
The animation is initially paused so that we can start it in JavaScript.
```

```css
.progress-bar {
  width: 100%;
  height: 20px;
  background: #eee;
  border-radius: 4px;
  overflow: hidden;
}

.progress-bar::after {
  content: "";
  display: block;
  height: 100%;
  width: 0%;
  background: #4f46e5;
  border-radius: 4px;
  animation: fill-progress 3s ease-in-out forwards paused;
}

@keyframes fill-progress {
  from {
    width: 0%;
  }
  to {
    width: 100%;
  }
}
```

#### JavaScript

> First we define a function to get the animations associated with a specified element and pseudo element.

Author: ```suggestion
First we define a function to get the animations associated with a specified element and pseudo-element.
```

> This first calls `getAnimations()` with the [`pseudoElement`](#pseudoelement) option, and then, if the first method doesn't return any animations, falls back to filtering the animations returned by passing [`subtree`](#subtree).

Author: ```suggestion
```

> This approach is needed because `pseudoElement` is not yet widely supported, and there is no simpler way to feature test.

Reviewer: I think we can drop the last sentence to make this part future-proof. The second sentence already explains why we're adding the fallback

```suggestion
It calls `getAnimations()` with the [`pseudoElement`](#pseudoelement) option, and if that doesn't return any animations, falls back to filtering the animations returned by [`subtree`](#subtree).
```

```js
function getAnimationsForPseudo(element, pseudo) {
  // Try the spec-compliant way first (Firefox)
  try {
    const anims = element.getAnimations({ pseudoElement: pseudo });
    // If it returned something, the option is supported, so return the result
    if (anims.length > 0) return anims;
  } catch (e) {
    // invalid selector etc
    return [];
  }

  // Fallback for browsers that only support subtree
  return element
    .getAnimations({ subtree: true })
    .filter((anim) => anim.effect?.pseudoElement === pseudo);
}
```

We use this function to get all the animations associated with the progress bar pseudo element.

> The code iterates through the animations to start them, and then removes the bar when all bar has finished animating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code iterates through the animations to start them, and then removes the progress bar when all animations have finished.
```

Note that we run the code in `requestAnimationFrame()` to ensure that the animation is ready to run before our JavaScript is executed.

```js
const bar = document.getElementById("bar");

requestAnimationFrame(() => {
  const anims = getAnimationsForPseudo(bar, "::after");
  anims.forEach((a) => a.play());
  Promise.all(anims.map((a) => a.finished)).then(() => bar.remove());
});
```

```html hidden
<button id="reset" type="button">Restart</button>
```

```js hidden
const reload = document.querySelector("#reset");

reload.addEventListener("click", () => {
  window.location.reload(true);
});
```

> #### Results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Result
```

The bar should progress across the width of the page, and then disappear.

> It can be restarted by pressing the "Restart" button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bar should progress across the width of its container and then disappear.
You can restart it by pressing the "Restart" button.
```
